https://nlp.cs.vcu.edu/data.html#mayosrs

Dal paper

To have a more
balanced distribution across the relatedness spectrum, we asked a practicing Mayo Clinic
physician (AR, a rheumatology specialist also formally trained in health informatics) to
generate a list of 120 pairs of medical terms that would roughly correspond to four
categories: closely related, somewhat related, somewhat unrelated and completely unrelated.
The physician was instructed to rely on his intuition in selecting pairs without having to
define explicitly the nature of the relationship between the terms. The original list of 120
pairs was further revised to remove duplicates and items that the physician felt unsure about.
The resulting set consisted of 101 pairs.
The corpus of 101 pairs was subsequently manually rated on a scale of 1-10 (1- closely
related, 10-unrelated) by 13 medical coding experts. All experts were at the time of the study
a part of the Mayo Medical Index group that continues to support multiple epidemiologic
studies at the Mayo Clinic and beyond, including the Rochester Epidemiology Project, a
legacy of Henry Plummer38. These coding experts were previously trained to classify the
diagnoses contained in the Mayo Clinic medical records using a Hospital Adaptation of the
International Classification of Diseases39. They had varying degrees of experience ranging
from 2 years to over 15. All of the experts participating in this study were female.
Subsequent to evaluating the corpus of 101 pairs, 9 of the 13 expertsii were also asked to
rate 30 pairs of general English words in the Miller and Charles corpus17. All experts were
instructed to rate the term pairs for semantic relatedness rather than similarity for both
biomedical and general English terms. To focus the ratings on relatedness, the raters were
provided with a number of examples; however, the raters were not formally trained to
distinguish cases of similarity from relatedness.